We the People of these United States of America, in Order to form a more stable Union, establish Justice, ensure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defense, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and re-establish this Constitution for these United States of America.

Article I (Article 1 - Legislative)
Section 1
All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of these United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. Only such powers as are specifically enumerated shall be so vested, and all other legislative matters shall remain with the People of the several States, or delegated to the Governments of the several States by the People thereof.

Section 2
1: The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second Year by the Citizens of the several States, and the Electors in each State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.

2: No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty Years, and been ten Years a Citizen of the State in which he shall be chosen, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State in which he shall be chosen, or if the State should choose that its Representatives be in service of a specific geographical area within the State, be an Inhabitant of that geographical area.

3: Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included within this Union, according to their respective Citizen Populations. The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of these United States, and within every subsequent Term of five Years, in such Manner as they shall by Law direct. The Number of Representatives shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand Citizens, nor shall it be less than one for every one hundred thousand Citizens, excepting that each State shall have at least one Representative.

4: When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such Vacancies.

5: The House of Representatives shall choose their Speaker and other Officers; and shall have the sole Power of Impeachment against officials of the Federal government.

Section 3
1: The Senate of these United States shall be composed of three Senators from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof; and each Senator shall have one Vote.

2: Each time a State joins the Union, it shall send three Senators to the Congress, of whom one will serve a term of two Years, one a term of four, and one a standard term of six, as designated by the State at the time that it joins the Union. Upon later election, each Senator from the State will serve six Years. 

3: No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty five Years, and been twelve Years a Citizen of these United States, and who shall not, when selected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen.

4: The Vice President of these United States shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.

5: The Senate shall choose their other Officers, and also a President pro tempore, in the Absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise the Office of President of these United States.

6: The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments. When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation. When the President of these United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members present.

7: Judgment in Cases of impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust or Profit under these United States: but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to Law.

Section 4
1: The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Representatives, and for deciding the Appointments of Senators, shall be prescribed in each State by the Constitution thereof, but such Elections must occur every second Year from the date on which the State joins the Union.

2: The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and such Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by Law appoint a different Day. Neither house shall assemble for a period of more than one Hundred days in a year, except as may be necessary in time of emergency which threatens the immediate physical safety of the Citizens of any State.

Section 5
1: Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and a Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business; but a smaller Number may adjourn from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members, in such Manner, and under such Penalties as each House may provide.

2: Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish its Members for disorderly Behavior, and, with the Concurrence of two thirds, expel a Member, who shall when so expelled be ineligible to return until one full term of Representation has elapsed.

3: Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and within 3 months publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgement require Secrecy. All matters which are so excepted shall be published within 15 Years of the Proceedings, though this may be extended a further 6 years in times of declared War.

4: Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.

Section 6
1: The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the State which they represent. They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for any Speech or Expression in either House, they shall not be questioned by State government or the Government of these United States, but will be answerable only to the House wherein they serve.

2: No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was elected, be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of these United States, which shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been increased during such time; and no Person holding any Office under these United States, shall be a Member of either House during his Continuance in Office.

Section 7
1: All Bills which require the spending of monies shall in their text provide for raising of Revenues as may allow for the spending, and shall originate in the House of Representatives. Such bills may, with the assent of the House, be amended by the Senate, but no amendment shall be made as would change the central character of the Bill from its original introduction.

2: Every Bill which shall provide for the funding of actions of the Federal Government of these United States prescribed by this Constitution which has been presented first to the House of Representatives, received the approval and signature of two-thirds of their number, presented to the Senate, and received the approval and signature of two-thirds of their number, shall be presented to the President for his approval. If he should approve the Bill by signature, it shall become Law; if not, or if he shall not provide his approval within 14 calendar days of the Senate's approval, it shall be returned to the House of Representatives, and if three-fourths of the Representatives approve, it shall become law. Bills passed into law shall retain force of law for a period to be defined in the Bill, but not to exceed six years.

3: Every other Bill which has been presented to the House of Representatives and the Senate, and has been approved and signed by all Representatives and Senators from several of the States, shall be sent to the Chief Executive of each of those States. If he should approve the Bill, it shall be considered approved by his State; if not, he shall send it to the Legislature of his State. If, after consideration, the Legislature of the State approves and signs the Bill in keeping with that State's Constitution, it shall be considered approved by the State. When at least two States have approved the Bill, it shall become law in those states which have so approved it, for a period not to exceed six years from first approval.

Section 8
The Congress shall have Power:

1:  To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and Excises, on commerce among the several States and with foreign nations; to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defense of these United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout these United States; and no Tax, Duty, Impost, or Excise shall apply to transactions occurring wholly within one State, nor shall any resident of any State be compelled by law to participate in a transaction other than the payment of such Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and Excises.

2: To borrow Money on the credit of these United States, when such credit shall be approved and a payment plan funded by laws passed as described in Article I, Section 7, Part 2;

3: To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and that which crosses borders among the several States;

4: To establish a uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout these United States;

5: To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;

6: To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and Offences against the Law of Nations;

7: To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water, but when War is declared, no troops or materiel shall issue except from those States whose representatives have unanimously approved the War;

8: To provide and maintain a Navy;

9: To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces;

10: To provide for calling forth the Militias of the several States to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;

11: To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, and for governing such Part of the Militias of the several States as may be employed in the Service of the Citizens and Residents of these United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress;

12: To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of these United States, and to exercise like Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings;

13: To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and which shall be within the scope of the foregoing Powers. It shall be the duty of all Representatives and Senators, the President of these United States, all State Executives, and State Legislatures, to ensure before their approval that a Bill under consideration falls within the scope of the foregoing powers, and is not in violation of any term of this Constitution.

Section 9
1: The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it, whereupon it shall be suspended for more than one week only with the approval of three-fourths of both the House of Representatives and the Senate.

2: No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.

3: No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid.

4: No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State, unless such Tax or Duty shall be imposed uniformly upon all States.

5: No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue to the Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels bound to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another.

6: No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published at least once per year. Such Statement shall include a record of any debts or surpluses arising from any individual Bill.

7: No Title of Nobility shall be granted by these United States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State. No person holding a Title of Nobility in a State shall have any authority relating to his Title in any other State, nor shall he have any authority over the Union.

8: No law, increasing the compensation for the services of the Senators and Representatives, shall take effect upon a Senator or Representative who shall be, at time of passage of the law, in the respective office; nor shall any law, decreasing their compensation, take effect until a new election shall have intervened.

Section 10
1: No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; pass any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts; or establish a Title of Nobility after entrance into the Union, nor shall Titles of Nobility established by a State before its entry to the Union hold or exercise authority in any other State.

2: No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury of these United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the Revision and Control of the Congress.

3: No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty of Tonnage, enter into any Agreement or Compact with a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay.

Article II (Article 2 - Executive)
Section 1
1: The executive Power shall be vested in a President of these United States of America. He shall hold his Office during the Term of four Years, and, together with the Vice President, chosen for the same Term, be elected, as follows:

2: Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress: but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under these United States, shall be appointed an Elector.

3: The District constituting the seat of government of these United States shall appoint in such manner as the Congress may direct: A number of electors of President and Vice President equal to the whole number of Senators and Representatives in Congress to which the District would be entitled if it were a state, but in no event more than the least populous state; they shall be in addition to those appointed by the states, but they shall be considered, for the purposes of the election of President and Vice President, to be electors appointed by a state; and they shall meet in the District and perform the same duties as the Electors of the States.

4: The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot for one Person who shall not be an Inhabitant of the same State with themselves. And they shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for each; which List they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the Government of these United States, directed to the President of the Senate. The President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and the Votes shall then be counted. The Person having the greatest Number of Votes shall be the President, if such Number be a Majority of the whole Number of Electors appointed; and if no Person have a Majority, then from the five highest on the List the House of Representatives shall immediately choose by Ballot one of them for President. But in choosing the President, the Votes shall be taken by States, the Representation from each State having one Vote; A quorum for this Purpose shall consist of a Member or Members from two thirds of the States, and a Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a Choice. In every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person having the greatest Number of remaining Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President. But if there should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate shall choose from them by Ballot the Vice President.

5: The Congress may determine, by majority vote in both the House and the Senate, the Time of choosing the Electors, and the Day on which they shall give their Votes; which Day shall be the same throughout these United States. Once the Time and Day have first been selected, they shall be fixed until the election is completed.

6: No Person except a natural born Citizen shall be eligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of forty Years, and been twenty Years a Resident within these United States, and who shall not have honorably served a term of no less than four years in the Militia of a State, or in the Military of these United States before the year two thousand and twenty, or in the Navy.

7: In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death, Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the said Office, the Same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the Congress may by Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation or Inability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring what Officer shall then act as President, and such Officer shall act accordingly, until the Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected.

8: Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, the President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office upon confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress.

9: Whenever the President transmits to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written declaration that he is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, and until he transmits to them a written declaration to the contrary, such powers and duties shall be discharged by the Vice President as Acting President.

10: Whenever the Vice President and a majority of either the principal officers of the executive departments or of such other body as Congress may by law provide, transmit to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives their written declaration that the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, the Vice President shall immediately assume the powers and duties of the office as Acting President.

11: Thereafter, when the President transmits to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written declaration that no inability exists, he shall resume the powers and duties of his office unless the Vice President and a majority of either the principal officers of the executive department or of such other body as Congress may by law provide, transmit within four days to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives their written declaration that the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office. Thereupon Congress shall decide the issue, assembling within forty-eight hours for that purpose if not in session. If the Congress, within twenty-one days after receipt of the latter written declaration, or, if Congress is not in session, within twenty-one days after Congress is required to assemble, determines by two-thirds vote of both Houses that the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, the Vice President shall continue to discharge the same as Acting President; otherwise, the President shall resume the powers and duties of his office.

12: The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services, a Compensation, which shall neither be increased nor diminished during the Period for which he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive within that Period any other Emolument from these United States, nor any of the States, nor any foreign State.

13: Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the following Oath or Affirmation:—“I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of President of these United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of these United States.”

Section 2
1: The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Navy of these United States; and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual Service of these United States; he may require the Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer in each of the executive Departments, upon any Subject relating to the Duties of their respective Offices, and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses against these United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.

2: He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties with foreign powers, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Officers of these United States, whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.

3: The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen during the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next Session.

Section 3
He shall from time to time send to the Congress Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them, and in Case of Disagreement between them, with Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn them to such Time within three months as he shall think proper; he shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all the Officers of these United States.

Section 4
The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of these United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, Failure to Discharge Duties, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.

Article III (Article 3 - Judicial)
Section 1
The judicial Power of these United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good Behavior, and shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation, which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.

Section 2
1: The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of these United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Authority;
—to all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls;
—to all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction;
—to Controversies to which these United States shall be a Party;
—to Controversies between two or more States;
—between a State and Citizens of another State;
—between Citizens of different States,
—between Citizens of the same State claiming Lands under Grants of different States, and between a State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.

2: In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court shall have original Jurisdiction. In all the other Cases before mentioned, the supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make.

3: The supreme Court shall have the authority, with the assent of two-thirds of the Justices, to decline to hear a case over which they have appellate jurisdiction, or with unanimous assent, to decline to hear a case over which they have original jurisdiction; but if the Chief Executives, Attorneys General, or Legislative bodies of more than one-third of the States shall be Plaintiff to a case, the supreme Court shall hear the case.

4: The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have directed.

Section 3
1: Treason against these United States, shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them material Aid and Comfort. No Person shall be convicted of Treason unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on Confession in open Court. In the event that a State should secede from the Union, no trial of Treason shall be brought, unless the seceding State shall have declared War against these United States.

2: The Congress shall have Power to declare the Punishment of Treason, but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood, or Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person attainted.

Article IV (Article 4 - States' Relations)
Section 1
1: Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.

2: The Government of each State shall have the right to challenge the Government of any other state to prove its Acts, Records, and Proceedings, and their compliance with this Constitution and with the Constitution of the state. When such a challenge is issued, the supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction.

Section 2
1: The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.

2: A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on Demand of the executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime.

Section 3
1: New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no territory of any State shall be transferred to another State, or be formed into a new State as a member of the Union, unless by three-fourths assent of the people of said territory; and if joining a previously existing State, by the assent of the Government of that State according to rules laid out in the State's Constitution, or if forming a new State, with such a State Constitution as may satisfy the requirements laid upon all States by this Constitution; and no new State shall be formed from the territories of existing States which shall have a population of less than thirty thousand Citizens. When such a State is newly formed, the Citizens of that state shall be treated as having Citizenship of these United States for such term as they have been Citizens of their previous State, or of the newly admitted State.

2: The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to these United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to Prejudice any Claims of these United States, or of any particular State; but Citizen Residents of such Territory or Property shall have the privilege to form a new State, or to join an existing State, according to the rules governing the formation or joining of a State by Citizen Residents of a territory owned by a different State.

Section 4
1: The government of any State may, at its discretion and with the assent of its Citizens, according to the State's constitution, elect to leave the Union, and inform the President of these United States in writing, signed by the State's chief executive. 

2: If the exiting State has land borders with a territory which is not a member of the Union, or has water access to the Oceans of the World through waters not claimed as territory by any other State of the Union, the State shall be considered to be sovereign and foreign from these United States on the date one year after the President of these United States has been informed of the State's intent to leave the Union.

3: Otherwise, the exiting state shall be considered sovereign and foreign on the date two years after the President of these United States has been informed.

4: During the period of time between the election of the State to leave the Union and the date of exit, the government of the State shall engage in negotiation of treaties to be activated on the date of exit, to govern trade between the newly separated State and the Union, and to come to agreement regarding the ownership of such lands within the borders of the newly separated State which previously had been purchased for use by the Government of these United States. For the purpose and within the scope of these negotiations, the State shall immediately be considered sovereign and foreign from these United States.

5: A State which so elects to leave the Union shall be treated as a friend and neighbor unless the State's actions shall decry such treatment; but the State shall be forbidden from rejoining the Union for a period of twenty-four years.

6: The Union may begin the process of removing a State or several States from the Union. In this case, the period until exit shall begin when the President of these United States delivers a document, signed by all Representatives and Senators, and all Chief Executives of the States, except those of the State or States being removed, to the Chief Executives of each State being removed. Afterwards, the negotiations shall proceed as if the State or States being removed had elected to being the process of leaving the Union.

Section 5
1: These United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic Violence.

2: No new State shall be admitted to the Union, which has not established a written Constitution which shall serve as supreme Law in the State, subject not to any law passed by the Congress of these United States, but only to the Constitution of these United States, in which a Republican form of government shall be described; and which shall provide for the election of State Legislature, Representatives to the Congress of these United States, Electors for the Presidency of these United States, and a Chief Executive of the State, by the people of the State, or by their chosen representatives; and which shall provide for the determination of the Citizens of the State to remove themselves from the Union; and which shall recognize the Rights and Responsibilities of the People inherent in their being as are described in Article V; and which shall enshrine in law the duty of the State to protect these Rights, and not to infringe upon them except as punishment of an individual for crimes of which they have been convicted, by unanimous decision of a Jury of disinterested peers, in a court of Law; and which recognizes the State as the sole organization given the sanction to act in aggression in its territory, and then only in accordance with such Constitution and Laws as are approved by the People or their elected Representatives.

Article V (Article 5 - The Enumeration of the Inherent Rights and Responsibilities of the People)
The following are recognized as the Rights of the People, which are not granted by any earthly Authority, but inhere in their being as conscious, sentient lives, and which carry with them Responsibilities which cannot be enforced by any earthly Authority.

1: It is the Right of all People to be secure in their person and property from aggression, coercion, unwarranted search and seizure, and theft; and to defend their selves and their property from such aggression, coercion, unwarranted search or seizure, or theft; and to possess, and to acquire by peaceful means, arms and other tools to accomplish that defense; and to dispose of their person and property in any manner they wish; and the Responsibility of all People to avoid, to the best of their ability, causing damage to another Person or that Person's Property without that Person's assent, and to exercise reasonable restraint in defense of their own Person or Property.

2: It is the Right of all People to associate or decline to associate with other People; and to form contracts; and to assemble in public places, and in private places with the assent of the owner of the place; and to engage in commerce, or refuse to engage in commerce, as fits their individual needs and desires; and the Responsibility of all People to ensure that their associations work toward the betterment of all associated, without causing harm to those not associated.

3: It is the Right of all People to speak as they see fit, and to distribute their thoughts and speech through whatever means they are able to peaceably attain, and to hear or otherwise receive the speech and thoughts of others, as they are so made available; and the Responsibility of all People to speak Truth, as best as can be perceived.

4: It is the Right of all People to petition their Government for redress of grievances; and the Responsibility of all People to watch their Government and ensure its good behavior, and to attempt to peaceably resolve intrusions by Government on the Rights of the People, before rising in arms against such an intrusion; and to rise in arms against the Government when peaceful resolutions become impossible.

5: It is the Right of all People to practice their religion freely and openly; and the Responsibility of all People to avoid interfering in the religious practice of others, and, in the practice of their religion, to respect the Rights of other People.

6: It is the Right of all People to be considered innocent of any crime, unless such crime shall be proven in a court of law, as decided by unanimous decision of a jury of at least twelve disinterested peers, and for such a trial to be carried out with reasonable speed in public, and for the result of such a trial to be respected in perpetuity; and to have access to legal Representation provided by the court or the prosecution, when the accused Person is unable to retain such Representation by their own means; and to be reasonably compensated for time served on a jury; and the Responsibility of all People to serve on such juries when called upon, and in such service adhere to the Truth, the Rights of the People, and the Law; and in such cases as the Law is in conflict with Truth or the Rights of the People, to judge in favor of Truth and the Rights of the People, against that unjust Law.

Article VI (Article 6 - Limitations on the Government with respect to the Rights of the People)

1: No person acting on behalf of the Government of these United States, the Government of any State, or of any subservient government authority to the Government of these United States or of any State, shall act in a way which intentionally violates any of the Rights of the People. Just compensation shall be awarded from the treasuries of the offending parties to those persons whose Rights are found to have been violated by any of the above parties; and such compensation shall be doubly awarded to the victims if any of the offending parties is demonstrated in a court of law to have acted with intent to violate the Rights, with half of that compensation to be paid directly by the individuals whose intent was so demonstrated.

2: When adjudicating violations of the Rights of the People, the Rights shall be taken in order of precedence as listed in Article V.

3: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

4: The right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed.

5: No Soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law; and compensation shall be offered to the Owner for such quartering.

6: The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, other information storage devices, and effects, against unwarranted searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized, that are approved and signed by a duly appointed Judge or Justice of the Courts. All Warrants shall be matters of public record, made available to the public on or before the date of search or seizure.

7: No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life, limb, liberty, or property; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.

8: In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defense, such Counsel to be provided for by the State and district in which he is accused, in the event that he cannot procure Counsel for himself.

9: In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed the value of five days' labor of any involved Party, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of these United States, than according to the rules of the common law.

10: Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel or unusual punishments inflicted.

11: Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within these United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction; and no Person shall be considered the Property of any other Person.

Article VII (Article 7 - Definition of Citizenship)
1: All persons naturalized in these United States, born to natural Citizens of these United States, or resident in and subject to any State joining the Union at time of joining, are Citizens of these United States and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of these United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any Person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.

2: The eligibility of a Citizen to vote in the election of a Representative, or of an Elector, or of a member of the Legislature of the State in which they reside, shall be determined according to the law of the State; and such law may not take into consideration factors which the Citizen has no ability to change, or has not caused to himself, except for the case of Age.

Article VIII (Article 8 - Mode of Amendment)
The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution, or, on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, which, in either Case, shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the several States, or by Conventions in three fourths thereof, as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress; Provided that no State shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the Senate, nor of proportional representation in the House of Representatives, and that this protection shall be preserved through any Amendment.

Article IX (Article 9 - Prior Debts, National Supremacy, Oaths of Office)
1: No Amendment to this constitution may free these United States from Debts or Treaties previously entered into, except by the terms of such Debts and Treaties.

2: This Constitution, and the Laws of these United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the Authority of these United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding.

3: The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of the several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both of these United States and of the several States, shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support and defend this Constitution above all else; but no other religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under these United States.
